# Vault

## Introduction

Vault is a first attempt at creating simple wrapper for Hashicorp's excellent
Vault secrets system API written in [V](https://vlang.io).

It is intended to allow programmatic access to read and write secrets and
related metadata stored in a Vault instance. For more information on what Vault
is and how it can be used, visit the official Vault
[website](https://vaultproject.io)

## Pre-Requisites

* Hashicorp's executable for Vault, available from their website
* The latest V compiler (V 0.2.4 75830f1)

## General Usage

Most API calls return two values:

* A structure that holds data from a successful call
* An error structure

See below for a few examples. Check to see if the Vault API has returned
an error by calling the error's is\_clear() function, If that comes back
false, your call was successful. If an error is returned, the successful
data struct will contain no data, so that is another way to check if
an API call was succesful or not.

### Connecting to Vault

In this example, we use an authentication token generated by Vault to connect,
and we explicitly pass in the URL to the Vault server:

```v
module main
import vault

fn main() {
    x := vault.new_client('http://127.0.0.1:8200', client.Authtype.token, 'root_token')
    println(x)
}
```

You can also preset the environment variable $VAULT\_ADDR, in which case there
is no need to pass the URL of the server:

```v
module main
import vault

fn main() {
x := vault.new_client('', client.Authtype.token, 'root_token')
    println(x)
}
```

Note that if you do not pass the Vault URL explicitly, _and_ the environment
variable $VAULT\_ADDR is not preset, the client will use the default
value 'http://127.0.0.1:8200'.

You can also authenticate to a Vault server with a username/password, provided
that option has been set by your Vault administrator. To log into Vault with
your username and password:

```v
module main
import vault

fn main() {
    cl := vault.new_client('', vault.Authtype.username, 'username', 'password')
    println(cl)
}
```

### Querying System Information and Status

You can obtain general information about the running Vault instance
with a single API call:

```v
fn system_health(x vault.Client) {
    health, my_err := x.get_system_health()

    if my_err.is_clear() {
        println('Success! $health')
    } else {
        println('Failure: $my_err')
    }
}
```

If successful, the above call would print something like:

```
Success! vault.System_health{
    initialized: true
    sealed: false
    standby: false
    performance_standby: false
    replication_performance_mode: 'disabled'
    replication_dr_mode: 'disabled'
    server_time_utc: 1647324568
    version: '1.9.4'
    cluster_name: 'vault-cluster-25c13bc2'
    cluster_id: '6d4b7316-16e2-f302-edde-cfaa6eab4cbd'
}
```

### Reading a secret

The API currently supports both Vault version 1 and version 2 secrets.

#### Version 1 secret:

```v
s1, my_err := x.get_secret_v1('cubbyhole', 'foo')
if my_err.is_clear() {
    println(s1)
} else {
    println(my_err)
}
```

If the secret cubbyhole/foo is found, this will print output similar to this:

```
vault.Secret_v1{
    request_id: '9e635499-73f3-a5c6-d628-d0dd737bfe8b'
    lease_id: ''
    renewable: false
    lease_duration: 0
    data: {'name': 'bar'}
}
```

#### Version 2 secret:

Version 2 supports versioning secret values. It is possible to retrieve
specific versions of any secret that hasn't been destroyed. Version 0
represents the __latest__ version of the secret. Version numbers must be
positive (greater than zero).

```v
s2, my_err := x.get_secret_v2('secret', 'bar', 0)
if my_err.is_clear() {
    println(s2)
    println(s2.key())
    println(s2.value())
} else {
    println(my_err)
}
```

If the secret and version number combo is found, the above will print
something like the following:

```
vault.Secret_v2{
    request_id: '1b423c42-a8e9-63f4-1bbb-90828c1eb070'
    lease_id: ''
    renewable: false
    lease_duration: 0
    data: vault.Secret_v2_data{
        data: {'novel': 'Dune'}
        metadata: vault.Secret_v2_metadata{
            created_time: '2022-03-15T05:59:04.149060852Z'
            deletion_time: ''
            destroyed: false
            version: 1
        }
    }
}
novel
Dune
```

## Current Features

As of this release, the following API calls are supported:

### Connecting to Your Vault:

* new\_client: (Create a new connection to your running Vault instance)
* unseal: (apply an unseal token to your running Vault instance)
* unseal\_progress: (fetch information about the current unseal status)

### General System Information:

* get\_encryption\_key\_status: (fetch information about the given
        encryption key)
* get\_system\_health: (fetch information about the currently running Vault)
* is\_initialized: (determine if your Vault instance has been initialized)
* is\_sealed: (determine if your Vault instance is still sealed or not)
* list\_secrets: (list all available secret mountpoints)
* list\_policies: (list all access policies defined to the system)
* read\_policy: (dump the given policy rules to stdout)
* token\_lookup: (fetch information about the given Vault access token)

### Version 1 Secrets:

* delete\_secret\_v1 (delete the secret)
* get\_secret\_v1: (fetch the value of the given secret)
* put\_secret\_v1: (create a new Version 1 secret, or overwrite an existing
        one)

### Version 2 Secrets:

* delete\_secret\_v2: (delete the latest secret version)
* delete\_secret\_v2\_versions: (delete multiple secret versions)
* destroy\_secret\_v2\_versions: (permanently destroy multiple secret versions)
* get\_secret\_v2: (fetch the value of the given secret)
* put\_secret\_v2: (create a new Version 2 secret, or overwrite an existing one)
* undelete\_secret\_v2\_versions: (restore a deleted -- but not yet destroyed --
        Version 2 secret)


## Future Plans

Currently, this library will raise panics when something totally unexpected
happens. This usually only happens when an API header cannot be created for
some reason through the V http library, but there may be other instances
here and there. We aim to remove all panics if possible.

The Vault API provides a lot of functionality for management of the Vault
instance, such as creating, applying, and revoking policies. Since Vault
offers an excellent web-based UI for basic management functions, we may
not include the ability to manage through this library.

## Contributing

Help is always appreciated. Open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Contact

PowellDean@gmail.com

